# Distance-Meter
The project is designed to develop distance measurement system using ultrasonic waves and interfaced with arduino. We know that human audible range is 20hz to 20khz. We can utilize these frequency range waves through ultrasonic sensor HC-SR04.The advantages of this sensor when interfaced with arduino which is a control and sensing system, a pro per distance measurement can be made with new techniques. As large amounts are spent for hundreds of inflexible circuit boards, the arduino will allow business to bring many more unique devices. This distance measurement system can be widely used as social distance meters, range meters and as proximity detectors in industries. The hardware part of ultrasonic sensor is interfaced with arduino. This method of measurement is efficient way to measure small distances precisely. The distance of an obstacle from the sensor is measured through ultrasonic sensor. After knowing the speed of sound the distance can be calculated.

An ultrasonic sensor is an electronic device that measures the distance of a target object by emitting ultrasonic sound waves, and converts the reflected sound into an electrical signal. Ultrasonic waves travel faster than the speed of audible sound (i.e. the sound that humans can hear). Ultrasonic sensors have two main components: the transmitter (which emits the sound using piezoelectric crystals) and the receiver (which encounters the sound after it has travelled to and from the target). In order to calculate the distance between the sensor and the object, the sensor measures the time it takes between the emissions of the sound by the transmitter to its contact with the receiver. The formula for this calculation is,
D = ½ T x C
(where D is the distance, T is the time, and C is the speed of sound ~ 343 meters/second). 
For example, if a scientist set up an ultrasonic sensor aimed at a box and it took 0.025 seconds for the sound to bounce back, the distance between the ultrasonic sensor and the box would be,
D = 0.5 x 0.025 x 343 or about 4.2875 meters
 Ultrasonic sensors are used primarily as proximity sensors. They can be found in automobile self-parking technology and anti-collision safety systems. Ultrasonic sensors are also used in robotic obstacle detection systems, as well as manufacturing technology. 
